[DOCS] Adds 8.4.0 release notes (#137621)
elastic/kibana: docs/CHANGELOG.asciidoc

*Impact* +
In 8.4.0 and later, you are unable to configure the *Timelion* legacy charts library advanced setting. For information about visualization Advanced Settings, check link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/8.4/advanced-options.html#kibana-visualization-settings[Visualization].
====
      
// end::notable-breaking-changes[]

[float]
[[deprecations-8.4.0]]
=== Deprecations

The following functionality is deprecated in 8.4.0, and will be removed in 9.0.0.
Deprecated functionality does not have an immediate impact on your application, but we strongly recommend
you make the necessary updates after you upgrade to 8.4.0.

[discrete]
[[deprecation-136422]]
.Deprecates ApiKey authentication for interactive users
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
The ability to authenticate interactive users authenticating with ApiKey has been deprecated, and will be removed in a future version. For more information, refer to {kibana-pull}136422[#136422].

*Impact* +

> To authenticate interactive users, use <<kibana-authentication,another authentication method>>. 

Reviewer: __nit:__
```suggestion
To authenticate interactive users via a web browser, use <<kibana-authentication,another authentication method>>. Use API keys only for programmatic access to {kib} and {es}.
```

* Display package verification status {kibana-pull}135928[#135928]
* Tag rename and delete feature {kibana-pull}135712[#135712]
* Bulk update agent tags ui {kibana-pull}135646[#135646]
* Adds API to bulk update tags {kibana-pull}135520[#135520]
* Adds and remove agent tags {kibana-pull}135320[#135320]
* Support sorting agent list {kibana-pull}135218[#135218]
* Promote Logstash output support to GA {kibana-pull}135028[#135028]
* Create new API to manage download_source setting {kibana-pull}134889[#134889]

Lens & Visualizations::
* Adds supports for include and exclude terms in *Lens* {kibana-pull}136179[#136179]

Machine Learning::
* Adds random sampler to Data visualizer document count chart {kibana-pull}136150[#136150]
* Adds explain log rate spikes feature to the ML plugin {kibana-pull}135948[#135948]

Management::
* Run packs live {kibana-pull}132198[#132198]
* Ability to set human readable title of data view & ability to edit data view {kibana-pull}124191[#124191]

Monitoring::
Adds stale status reporting for Kibana {kibana-pull}132613[#132613]

Observability::
* Adds Beta label to Infrastructure tab {kibana-pull}136710[#136710]

> * Create and add Rule Alerts Summary as a sharable component to the O11y Rule Details {kibana-pull}135805[#135805]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Creates and adds Rule Alerts Summary as a sharable component to the O11y Rule Details {kibana-pull}135805[#135805]
```

* Rule Details Page - Use RuleStatusPanel from triggersActionsUI {kibana-pull}135643[#135643]

> * Cases permissions can be customized to prevent a user from deleting Cases entities (cases themselves, and attachments/comments) {kibana-pull}135487[#135487]

Reviewer 3: This feature applies to Cases in Observability, Security, and Stack Management, so should be moved into a separate `Cases` section.

> * Top erroneous transactions {kibana-pull}134929[#134929]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Adds Top erroneous transactions to errors details page {kibana-pull}134929[#134929]
```

> * Introduce Alerts tab on service overview page {kibana-pull}134350[#134350]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Introduces Alerts tab on service overview page {kibana-pull}134350[#134350]
```

* Adds single metric report type {kibana-pull}132446[#132446]

Platform::
Adds new bulkUpdatesSchedules method to Task Manager {kibana-pull}132637[#132637]

Security::
Adds the ability to create personal avatars {kibana-pull}132522[#132522]

Sharing::
Adds the new metric visualization {kibana-pull}136567[#136567]

For more information about the features introduced in 8.4.0, refer to <<whats-new,What's new in 8.4>>.

[[enhancements-and-bug-fixes-v8.4.0]]
=== Enhancements and bug fixes

For detailed information about the 8.4.0 release, review the enhancements and bug fixes.
      
[float]
[[enhancement-v8.4.0]]
=== Enhancements
Alerting::
* Adds snooze state UI to Rule Details page {kibana-pull}135146[#135146]

> * {REDO} Add Snooze Scheduling UI and API {kibana-pull}134512[#134512]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Adds Snooze Scheduling UI and API {kibana-pull}134512[#134512]
```

* Adds focus to h1 element when client side routing is executed {kibana-pull}133846[#133846]
* Adds an option to copy column values to Clipboard in Document Explorer {kibana-pull}132330[#132330]

Elastic Security::
For the Elastic Security 8.4.0 release information, refer to {security-guide}/release-notes.html[_Elastic Security Solution Release Notes_].

Fleet::
* Remove Kubernetes Package granularity {kibana-pull}136622[#136622]
* Elastic-agent manifests: align with elastic-agent repo; add comments {kibana-pull}136394[#136394]
* Configure source URI in global settings and in agent policy settings {kibana-pull}136263[#136263]
* Adds Kubernetes in platforms selection list && update managed agent installation steps {kibana-pull}136109[#136109]
* That PR will enable user to write custom ingest pipeline for Fleet installed datastream {kibana-pull}134578[#134578]
* Update manifests for agent on kubernetes with new permissions {kibana-pull}133495[#133495]
* Adds support for a textarea type in integrations {kibana-pull}133070[#133070]

Kibana Home & Add Data::
Adds AnalyticsNoDataPage {kibana-pull}134172[#134172]

Lens & Visualizations::

> * Adds the ability to set top values limit to 10,000 in *Lens* {kibana-pull}136399[#136399]

Reviewer 5: @ghudgins Include/exclude on top values is called out as feature while everything else is an "enhancement" - do you think this split makes sense or should we highlight something else instead/as well?

* Addss value count to *Lens* {kibana-pull}136385[#136385]
* Adds standard deviation function in *Lens* {kibana-pull}136323[#136323]
* Adds the ability to set the font size for mosaic outer level in *Lens* {kibana-pull}135911[#135911]
* Adds the ability to rank top values by custom metric in *Lens* {kibana-pull}134811[#134811]
* Adds the ability to convert TSVB series agg to *Lens* configuration {kibana-pull}134681[#134681]
* Adds the ability to allow multiple split accessors {kibana-pull}134566[#134566]

> * Adds xExtent validation within expression {kibana-pull}134546[#134546]

Reviewer 5: Shouldn't be an enhancement, already adjusted label on PR

* Adds the ability to render newlines in data table in *Lens* {kibana-pull}134441[#134441]
* Extends Axis bounds for XY chart when using Interval operation in *Lens* {kibana-pull}134020[#134020]
* Adds the ability to use pick_max instead of clamp for positive only {kibana-pull}133460[#133460]
* Adds a new pick_min/max operation and clamp fixes in *Lens* {kibana-pull}132449[#132449]
* Adds support for percentile_ranks aggregation in *Lens* {kibana-pull}132430[#132430]
* Implements the ability to drag and drop between layers in *Lens* {kibana-pull}132018[#132018]
* Adds optimization for percentiles fetching in *Lens* {kibana-pull}131875[#131875]

> * Adds `axes` support {kibana-pull}129476[#129476]

Reviewer 5: Shouldn't be an enhancement, already adjusted label on PR

* Data Visualizer: Remove duplicated geo examples, support 'version' type, add filters for boolean fields, and add sticky header to Discover {kibana-pull}136236[#136236]
* Adds a link to ML trained models list from ID in Stack Management app table {kibana-pull}135700[#135700]
* Adds information callouts to trained model testing flyout {kibana-pull}135566[#135566]
* Limit Use full data button in anomaly detection job wizards to past data only {kibana-pull}135449[#135449]
* Replace a fixed Y-axis width with a max width setting for Anomaly Swim Lane Embeddable {kibana-pull}135436[#135436]
* Adds support for setting threading params when starting a trained model deployment {kibana-pull}135134[#135134]
* Management page refactor {kibana-pull}134893[#134893]
* Disable the Single Metric Viewer button for not viewable jobs {kibana-pull}134048[#134048]
* Anomaly Detection: allow snapshot to be reverted from the view datafeed flyout {kibana-pull}133842[#133842]

Management::
* Transforms: Adds per-transform setting for num_failure_retries to creation wizard and edit flyout and authorization info {kibana-pull}135486[#135486]

> * Adds sorting to Transform's Audit Messages {kibana-pull}135047[#135047]

Reviewer 3: For consistency with the formatting we normally use for transforms PRs, I edited the title of this PR to `Transforms: Add sorting to audit messages tab`

* Allow connectors to explicitly register which features they will be available in {kibana-pull}136331[#136331]
* Display node details metrics for kubernetes containers {kibana-pull}135585[#135585]
* Replace sourceId with mandatory logView prop in LogStream component {kibana-pull}134850[#134850]
* Backend operation distribution chart {kibana-pull}134561[#134561]
* Display top spans for operation {kibana-pull}134179[#134179]
* Show descriptive loading, empty and error states in the metrics table {kibana-pull}133947[#133947]
* Backend operations detail view + metric charts {kibana-pull}133866[#133866]
* Backend operations list view {kibana-pull}133653[#133653]

Platform::
* Upgrade Kibana logs to ECS 8.4 {kibana-pull}136362[#136362]
* Adds error messaging to the report contents when there is a timeout in page setup {kibana-pull}134868[#134868]
* Adds migrations.discardCorruptObjects flag {kibana-pull}132984[#132984]
* Adds migrations.discardUnknownObjects flag {kibana-pull}132167[#132167]

Querying & Filtering::
Hides the tour component when the hideAnnouncements uiSetting is on {kibana-pull}135990[#135990]

Security::

> Adds the ability to navigate to a profile without full page reload {kibana-pull}135543[#135543]

Reviewer: __nit:__
```suggestion
Eliminates the need for a full page reload when navigating to a user profile page {kibana-pull}135543[#135543]
```

* Fix multi-field top values for Heatmap visualizations in *Lens* {kibana-pull}135581[#135581]
* Fixes styling issues in *Lens* {kibana-pull}135406[#135406]
* Show badge for read-only in *Lens* {kibana-pull}135313[#135313]
* Don't let reference line fills on different axes collide in *Lens* {kibana-pull}135299[#135299]
* Fixes css specificity issue in *TSVB* {kibana-pull}135245[#135245]
* Always show palette on first dimension for mosaic in *Lens* {kibana-pull}135198[#135198]
* Wrong `visType` for `horizontal_bar` visualization {kibana-pull}135013[#135013]
* Unlinking Some Agg Based Visualizations Results in Unsaved Changes in *Visualize* {kibana-pull}134229[#134229]
* [Datatable] Ellipsis truncation is not visible in cells. Letters are just cut off. in *Lens* {kibana-pull}134065[#134065]
* Switching dashboard mode doesn't update missing data view prompt in *Visualize* {kibana-pull}133873[#133873]
* Fixes application of suffix formats in *Lens* {kibana-pull}133780[#133780]
* Error messages not centered in *TSVB* {kibana-pull}133288[#133288]
* Use correct time zone for time shifting {kibana-pull}133141[#133141]

Machine Learning::

> * Lock the delete annotation button on click {kibana-pull}137306[#137306]

Reviewer 3: There are a few extra ML fixes which have been merged in the past week:
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/137596
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/137670
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/137989
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/138255

* Fixes globally pinned filters in Data visualizer and query search bar not clearing properly for saved searches {kibana-pull}136897[#136897]
* Fixes overflow in start datafeed modal {kibana-pull}136292[#136292]
* Fixes error in categorization wizard summary step {kibana-pull}134228[#134228]

> Management::

Reviewer 3: There are a few extra transforms fixes that have been merged in the past week:
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/137773
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/138630
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/138756

> Management::

Reviewer 6: Let's add this one too: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/138563

* Fixes a bug in Index Management where the number of documents for an index could appear wrong {kibana-pull}135748[#135748]
* Fixes a bug in the Painless code editor that was incorrectly handling expressions with multiple division operators {kibana-pull}135423[#135423]

Maps::
* Fixes "other" is always shown in legend for category styling rules {kibana-pull}137008[#137008]
* Fixes Tooltip loses pages on refresh {kibana-pull}135593[#135593]
* Fixes Pinned filters should be visible on new maps without user having to do any action on layers {kibana-pull}135465[#135465]
* Keep timeframe when editing a map from a dashboard {kibana-pull}135374[#135374]
* Reduce precision of coordinates for geo imports {kibana-pull}135133[#135133]
* Fixes onDataLoadEnd and onDataLoadError event handler callbacks only called for source data requests {kibana-pull}134786[#134786]
* Fixes sort not applied to vector tile search request {kibana-pull}134607[#134607]
* Fixes array values out of order in tooltips {kibana-pull}134588[#134588]

Monitoring::
Removes beta icon from logstash pipeline {kibana-pull}131752[#131752]

> Observability::

Reviewer 3: This fix has also been merged:
https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/138259

* Navigation from Span to Service breaks due to wrong transactionType {kibana-pull}136569[#136569]
* Breadcrumbs not updating from service jump on service map {kibana-pull}136144[#136144]
* Adds support for metrics for latency distribution histogram {kibana-pull}136083[#136083]
* Disallow spaces in index pattern {kibana-pull}135977[#135977]
* WrappedElasticsearchClientError: Request aborted {kibana-pull}135752[#135752]
* Fixes waterfall skew due to accordion left margins {kibana-pull}135544[#135544]
* Service inventory: detailed stats fetched for all services {kibana-pull}134844[#134844]
* Update network fields {kibana-pull}134471[#134471]
* Fixes Metrics Table Pod link to Details Page {kibana-pull}134354[#134354]
* Adds last updated at label and fix started at label {kibana-pull}134254[#134254]
* Adds event module filter to metrics table {kibana-pull}133872[#133872]

Platform::
* Migrations wait for index status green if create index returns acknowledged=false or shardsAcknowledged=false {kibana-pull}136605[#136605]
* Fixes CSV generator to include unmapped fields in the search source {kibana-pull}132972[#132972]

> 

Reviewer: Looks like this fix is missing in the changelog #134454
```suggestion
Security::
Fixes keyboard and screen reader navigation for the spaces selector {kibana-pull}134454[#134454]

```
